Notes:

Most of the questions are designed to give you an idea of DevOps and make you ready for upcoming challenges. Solve any 3. 

Marking Scheme:

Total marks are 50. Each Question consists of 10 points. 20 points are reserved for various factors like optimized code, efficient code, proper comments, hustle, etc. 

Q1. In DevOps, security is a crucial aspect, and ensuring strong passwords is essential. Create a Python script to check the password strength. 

●       Implement a Python function called check_password_strength that takes a password string as input.

●       The function should check the password against the following criteria:

○       Minimum length: The password should be at least 8 characters long.

○       Contains both uppercase and lowercase letters.

○       Contains at least one digit (0-9).

○       Contains at least one special character (e.g., !, @, #, $, %).

●       The function should return a boolean value indicating whether the password meets the criteria.

●       Write a script that takes user input for a password and calls the check_password_strength function to validate it.

●       Provide appropriate feedback to the user based on the strength of the password.  



Q2. As a DevOps engineer, it is crucial to monitor the health and performance of servers. Write a Python program to monitor the health of the CPU. Few pointers to be noted:

●       The program should continuously monitor the CPU usage of the local machine.

●       If the CPU usage exceeds a predefined threshold (e.g., 80%), an alert message should be displayed.

●       The program should run indefinitely until interrupted.

●       The program should include appropriate error handling to handle exceptions that may arise during the monitoring process.

Hint:

●       The psutil library in Python can be used to retrieve system information, including CPU usage. You can install it using pip install psutil.

●       Use the psutil.cpu_percent() method to get the current CPU usage as a percentage.

Expected Output:

Monitoring CPU usage...

Alert! CPU usage exceeds threshold: 85%

Alert! CPU usage exceeds threshold: 90%

... (continues until interrupted) 



Q3. In DevOps, automating configuration management tasks is essential for maintaining consistency and managing infrastructure efficiently.

●       The program should read a configuration file (you can provide them with a sample configuration file).

●       It should extract specific key-value pairs from the configuration file.

●       The program should store the extracted information in a data structure (e.g., dictionary or list).

●       It should handle errors gracefully in case the configuration file is not found or cannot be read.

●       Finally save the output file data as JSON data in the database.

●       Create a GET request to fetch this information.

Sample Configuration file: 

[Database]

host = localhost

port = 3306

username = admin

password = secret

 

[Server]

address = 192.168.0.1

port = 8080

 

Sample Output: 

Configuration File Parser Results:

Database:

- host: localhost

- port: 3306

- username: admin

- password: secret

 

Server:

- address: 192.168.0.1

- port: 8080 



Q4. In DevOps, performing regular backups of important files is crucial:

●       Implement a Python script called backup.py that takes a source directory and a destination directory as command-line arguments.

●       The script should copy all files from the source directory to the destination directory.

●       Before copying, check if the destination directory already contains a file with the same name. If so, append a timestamp to the file name to ensure uniqueness.

●       Handle errors gracefully, such as when the source directory or destination directory does not exist.

Sample Command:

python backup.py /path/to/source /path/to/destination

By running the script with the appropriate source and destination directories, it should create backups of the files in the source directory, ensuring unique file names in the destination directory.


Submission Instructions:

To submit your assignment, please follow these guidelines:

- Ensure that your assignment is fully completed.

- Push your code/assignment to a GitHub repository.

- Share the repository link by including it in a text, Word, or PDF file format.

Submit the file/text containing the repository link via Vlearn.